hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery another
and to query in goodie for you this hour
we're going to take a break from mr.
Robert fortune for a while I mean come
on seven episodes already let's move on
to something else
that has been requested more than a few
times at the China history podcast and
not just by my esteemed Swedish
listeners from others as well Sven
Hadean one of the great explorers
adventurers cartographers and all-around
man of guts and fortitude to come out of
that legendary age of 19th and 20th
century european explorers he was one of
the most renowned explorers of his day
he was contemporary with Aurel Stein
those Stein was more of an archaeologist
and Hadean and Explorer cartographer
both of them were big stars in their day
Sven Hadean lived for 87 years from 1865
till 1952 that was a life whose arc
spanned the years from Lincoln's
assassination all the way to the Korean
War quite a bit of history happened
during those decades Stein lived from
1862 to 1943 Stein of course is the
better remembered because of his
discovery of Dunhuang something that
immortalized him and when Aurel Stein
broke into the Malka caves and 1907 and
beheld the Diamond Sutra the world's
first printed book dated to the year 868
587 years before the Gutenberg Bible
Stein carried a certain book in his bag
and this book is the volume from which I
will read from in this episode it was
called through Asia I'll be reading from
volumes 1 and 2 there's no volume 3
Stein not only had the benefit of the
content contained in this book which
chronicled spent hiddens first
expedition in 1897 through present-day
Shin Jung Kyrgyzstan the Pamir mountains
and Taklamakan desert Stein also enjoyed
the benefits of the maps that spent
Hadean produced
this expedition so although Stein is the
better known it was the great Swede van
Hadean who you can say blazed the trail
for the eventual discovery of the caves
at dun Wong by mark Aurel Stein van
Hadean besmirched his name and his
legacy because of his later support and
expression of admiration of all that
Hitler was doing in Europe his
association with the Nazis though never
one himself later made him persona non
grata at a lot of places he was already
well into his late 70s by then whose
best days were already behind him so it
was probably quite painful to have
enjoyed all the accolades for so long
and then fumble the ball almost at the
goal line
anyway this China vintage our selection
will cover several chapters from volume
1 of sven head deans through asia
published in 1898 as i said he travelled
and explored throughout shin jung and
the surrounding lands of central asia if
you don't mind I'm only gonna focus on
the chapters that concerned his
observations made inside what is today
China the narrative he gave meeting and
hanging out with care gives people in
the 1890s priceless but I'm gonna focus
on spent headings time spent in and
around Xin Jiang in fact after a brief
excerpt from the preface I'm gonna start
with chapter 19 reminiscences of kashgar
I hope you enjoy it
this work does not claim to be anything
more than a plain account of my journeys
through Asia during the years 1893 to
1897 who has been written for the
general public and presents nothing more
than a description of my travels and the
more memorable of my experiences not by
any means the whole of my experiences to
have recorded everything that I sat down
in my notebooks would have swelled out
the book to twice its existing length
nevertheless those portions of my
journey which I have merely touched upon
or have passed over all together in
silence will not I trust
be altogether lost if this book is
with the indulgence which I ventured to
hope for it I propose to issue a
supplementary volume to contain a
multitude of matters of varied interest
and of not less importance than those
contained in these pages
the astronomical observations which I
made for the purpose of checking and
controlling my instrumental calculations
consisted of determinations of latitude
and time in seventeen several places the
instrument I employed was a prismatic
circle and the object I observed the Sun
or failing that the moon mr. Rosen who
has kindly calculated my results is
satisfied that the errors and the
latitudinal observations are in every
instance less than fifteen seconds and
in the temporal determinations in all
cases under one second the longitudes of
certain of the stations were already
known with scientific exactitude these
data I employed as basis for the
determination of the longitudes of the
remaining places by this means - I was
enabled to check more effectually the
accuracy of my chronometer x' a
circumstance the more needful seeing
that these latter were frequently
subjected to the rough vista toots of
travel through difficult regions I
brought home latitudinal observations
for seven fresh places and longitudinal
observations for six for the original
calculation of the altitudes which occur
throughout these pages I am indebted to
the kindness and skill of dr. Nils at
home for the conversion of the metric
Heights and other measurements into feet
miles etc and for the conversion of the
Celsius scale into the Fahrenheit scale
as well as for the transliteration of
the place names the translator is
responsible finally it gives me pleasure
to acknowledge a special debt of thanks
to mr. JT bill BBA some time of the
editorial staffs of the Encyclopedia
Britannica Chambers encyclopedia etc for
the ability and experience in
conscientious care with which he has
rendered my original Swedish into
English in the translation of a portion
of the book mr. BLB was assisted by Miss
eh Hearn van Hadean Stockholm first of
May 1898 reminiscences of kashgar I
remained 50 days in cash
waiting till my eyes got well this time
I employed in working out the results of
my journey up to that point in arranging
and tabulating my observations and
plotting out my maps the rest was indeed
very welcome in fact absolutely
necessary I thoroughly appreciated the
hospitality of my friend's house where I
was surrounded by all the comforts and
conveniences of civilization console
Petrovsky is the most amiable man in the
world in every way a right excellent
host his intellectual conversation was
as instructive as it was elevating for
he is a thorough man of science to his
fingertips during the years he had been
stationed at Kashgar he had made many
discoveries and observations of the
greatest value for history and
archaeology someday he intends to
publish them to the world
his library contains the selection of
the best books that have been written on
the subjects connected with Central Asia
he is also a laboratory fitted with the
most costly instruments and scientific
appliances it would be absolutely
impossible to have a better base than
mr. Petrovsky's house for a series of
exploring journeys in the interior of
Asia I have already described kashgar in
the vicinity in my former book suffice
it therefore to say here that the old
town stood there on the banks of the
Kisel sue every whit as grey and
solitary is when I first saw it in 1890
I add however a few words about the
Europeans and Chinese with whom during
this visit I was brought into contact
the members of the consulate embraced
mr. Petrovsky and his wife has secretary
two military officers a revenue officer
and a troop of half a hundred cossacks
at a McKnight EF a Roman Catholic Paul
who went out to kashgar ten years ago as
a missionary was still there a standing
guest at mr. Petrovsky's table he was a
fine old man with a smooth shaven face
and snow-white hair was dressed entirely
in white or a rosary round his neck with
a cross dependent from it and looked
like a Cardinal out of office we used to
rally him over the dinner table but he
met all our illusions even the most
embarrassing with the jovial smile
and resented nothing so long as he got
his full number of jams the only person
who put faith in his pretensions to
missionary zeal was himself for during
all the 10 years he had been in Kashgar
he had not made a single proselyte
indeed he had made no serious attempt at
conversion he boasted that he had
converted one old sart woman on her
deathbed but the malicious declared that
the old woman was already dead when he
converted her during the following
winter Adamek not EF often used to visit
me in the evening and many was the
lonely hour he thus helped to shorten by
his conversation we would both sit over
the fire till well on into the night and
he would relate to me the various
episodes of his adventurous life he told
me how during the Polish rebellion he
had helped to hang a Russian priest from
which deed he was banished to Siberia
and remained there about 30 years he was
of noble blood and belonged to the
family of Doug vo but he was then living
half a wastrel in Kashgar a lonely man
forgotten friendless with none to care
for him or take any interest in him with
none to shed a tear over his grave when
the end of his days should come
nevertheless he was always cheerful
always friendly and jovial perfectly
contented with his lot and so we used to
sit talking over the fire like a couple
of Hermits I also found in Kashgar
another old friend and father Hendrix he
was in all respects a remarkable man who
had been domiciled in the town quite as
long as Adam McKnight EF a Dutchman by
birth he had been 25 years in Asia spoke
12 different languages and followed
closely and with interest the affairs of
the world he was ensured to man of wide
culture and doubt with no small share of
talent in this respect the exact
opposite of Adam at 90 F he made his
home in a Hindu caravan Surrey a
miserable hovel without windows and
lived in a state of the greatest poverty
apparently long ago forgotten by his
friends in Europe for it was seldom if
ever that he received any letters it was
however a real pleasure to talk to him
he was both amusing and really witted
st. French songs with the same Verve
that he recited his Latin
asses and was a thorough original if
ever there was one to see him striding
at a smart pace through the
bazaars with his long cloak his
broad-brimmed hat staff his long beard
and his big spectacles always put me in
mind of a grey friar Munk solitaire
solitaire solitaire such was the burden
of his life song a solitary man he
recited punctually every day the masses
which none came to listen to solitaire
he sat on the platform beside the door
of his hovel and read heedless of the
bustle of the caravans that came and
went
solitary he dressed the scanty fare
which his poverty permitted him to eat
solitary he wandered about the roads of
an evening always and everywhere a
solitary lonely being it was always a
pleasure to me when I fell in with him
many an hour we sat together
philosophizing over life for I too was
just as lonely a man as he there was
also a third missionary in the town a
who had been converted to
Christianity and baptized by the name of
Johannes or John he had studied the
Quran in Erzurum in Turkish Armenia and
for the minarets of the city cried to
the faithful there is no god but Allah
and Muhammad is His Prophet
after being converted to Christianity he
spent two years at a mission school in
Sweden and the time of my visit to
kashgar he chiefly occupied himself with
translating the Bible into Turkey and
the dialect of kashgar and with playing
Swedish psalm tunes on a violin in the
evening such were the happy destinies of
the champions of the cross and that
remotest of Chinese cities I felt truly
sorry for them their energies were
wasted their Labour's fruitless their
lives empty hard and of none account
during my first visit in Kashgar I had
the good fortune to come in contact the
two pleasant English gentlemen the
famous traveler captain young husband
and mr. McCartney the former had in the
interval returned to India the latter
still dwelt in Kashgar occupying a
comfortable house in a splendid
situation close to the garden of chinna
bog at more than one occasion he
entertained
father Hendrickson myself with splendid
hospitality mr. McCartney was the agent
of the Indian government for Chinese
affairs in Turkestan he had a first-rate
training and spoke fluently the
principal languages of Europe and the
Orient being especially distinguished in
Chinese in fact he was too good for his
post he was capable of rendering his
country substantial services in a more
distinguished sphere of action I will
now turn to the more eminent of the
Chinese with whom I had relations during
my stay in Kashgar the highest official
in each of the 19 provinces of China is
the governor and with him are associated
the vice governor the head of the
provincial treasury the judge and the
procurator's now whereas the first four
exercises authority over the whole of
the province the functions of the last
official the procurator or dolt I the
man who shows the right way are limited
to a smaller district or subdivision of
the province for instance in the
province of Xinjiang which embraces the
whole of East Turkestan Ely a part of
Jeong Gary uh and a part of Gobi there
are several Tala ties room Chi the
capital of the province has one Aqsa is
another there's a third at kashgar and
so on the doubt eyes sphere of authority
is therefore less extensive than the
spheres of his colleagues but within his
own sphere his actual authority is in
several respects superior to theirs
seeing that he enjoys the power to check
and regulate their action as well as to
make representations to the central
government if he considers them lacking
in the performance of their duty the
position he occupies is in many ways
similar to that which was occupied by
the Russian provincial procurator's in
the time of the empress catherine ii but
with this fundamental difference that
whereas the functions of the russian
procurator's were limited to protesting
the chinese dalitai possesses under
certain circumstances the power to
command my friend zhang dalitai of
kashgar exercised authority over a very
extensive region stretching north
eastwards towards the boundary of the
procurator ship of Axew and embracing
kashgar maru Bashi yarkand houghton
korea and church in his duties are
principally civil but they
also extend into the domain of military
affairs in that he acts his paymaster to
the troops and inspector of the
commissariat the district of Sarek call
on the eastern pamir z' is administered
like the similar frontier districts of
the russian and Afghan premiers by
military officers the doubt eye of
kashgar is able to exercise a certain
measure of influence upon the conduct of
affairs and sorry call for he is
authorized to give advice and furnish
intelligence but is not allowed to issue
direct commands when a young man Shawn
was nothing more than a simple clerk to
a Mandarin but having distinguished
himself at the time of the first revolt
in Hungaria 1864 he rapidly mounted the
ladder of promotion till he attained his
present high position although no Adonis
he was from top to toe a thoroughly high
principle gentleman on ordinary days he
was wanted to flit his saffron yellow
body about--nah little blue cards but
for ceremonious occasions and functions
of high solemnity he came out in
magnificent attire namely a robe of blue
and black silk and the ample folds of
which golden dragons played
hide-and-seek whilst Golden Lions of
fantastic shape climbed up up the
wildering tangle of interlaced Garland's
a mystic button and a silk skullcap
proclaimed that he was a Dharan or
Mandarin of the second class to complete
his gala costume he wore around his neck
a long chain of hard fruit kernels
polished and curved on the outside upon
arriving in Kashgar one of my first
duties was of course to go and pay my
respects to this high and influential
official he received me and singularly
polite and cordial fashion he lived in a
straggling Yaman consisting of a
labyrinth of square courtyards with
mulberry trees planted in the middle and
wooden verandah as running round the
sides the pillars which supported the
verandas were decorated with Chinese
idea graphs and the walls of the
building with mural paintings
representing for the most part dragons
and other fantastic animals the doubt I
himself received me at the first door
and with an affable smile conducted me
as far as the audience chamber where we
took our seats on up
sides of a little square table and drank
tea together and smoked out of silver
pipes soldiers armed with long shafted
halberds kept watched beside the door
and a group of respectable yellow skin
functionaries with well-preserved
pigtails and buttons and their black
silk caps stood like a circle of lighted
candles all round the room keeping a
silent and motionless of statues all the
time the audience lasted the doubt I
himself were the insignia of his lofty
dignity with the view of repaying honour
with honor I had put on my best dress
suit of broadcloth and went to his
palace riding a horse as white as fresh
fallen snow and escorted by a troop of
Cossacks for two hours we conversed
together rather competed which should
excel the other in paying compliments
the doubt I asked me how I liked his tea
I answered Paul
that being the only Chinese word I knew
thereupon he clapped his hands and said
by the memory of my father's what a
marvelously learned man my guest is a
little later he told me that the river
taroom which flowed out of Lochner into
the desert reappeared again several
thousand Li distant and formed the great
Yellow River of China at this I gave him
as good as I got what a well-informed
man your excellency is you know
everything but I also let him hear a
little plain truth as well I told him
how he had been received at balloon cool
the first place I entered on the Chinese
side of the frontier expressing my
astonishment that I should have been
treated with such discourtesy in face of
the pass and letters of introduction I
carried and declaring my intention of
making representations on the subject in
higher quarters upon hearing this the
doubt eyes face clouded and with some
show of emotion he begged me not to
lodge a complaint he would himself teach
he under in a lesson
I promised therefore that for that once
I would let the matter drop for of
course I never had any intention of
doing what I said but I found that the
only way to deal with the Chinese is to
be positive in your statements and
peremptory in your demands if you wish
to avoid being made ridiculous by their
fantastic exaggerations towards the
close of our interview the dowel tie
reminded me that gosh gar possessed
Chiefs himself and the Russian consul
general the Mohammedans declare that mr.
Petrovsky is the true successor of the
jhaggat icons who ruled over kashgar
from the death of genghis khan to pass
the middle of the sixteenth century he
pointed out that since I had taken up my
quarters for a time with the Russian
chief it would only be right that I
should also grant his Chinese colleague
the honour of entertaining me for any
rate a few days I thanked him very very
much for the honor but declined the next
day the Delhi returned my visit coming
with all the pomp and circumstance of
oriental display at the head of the
procession wrote a Herald who at every
fifth step sounded a gigantic Gong he
was followed by several men armed with
switches and whips with which they
dusted the jackets of everybody who had
not the good sense to get out of their
way the great man himself rode in a
little covered cart with three windows
and two high wheels drawn by a mule
which was shaded by an awning held up by
rods fixed to the shafts on both sides
of this state chariot walked attendants
bearing huge parasols and lemon colored
standards inscribed with Chinese
ideographs and black ink the rear of the
procession was brought up by a troop of
soldiers mounted beautiful white horses
but wearing such fantastic uniforms as
would have astounded even though a a
Chinese dinner party I can't apart from
my Chinese friends in Kashgar without
adding a brief account of a Chinese
dinner party which I shall never forget
I had scarcely recovered from dining at
the house of Chand alloy a kind of mayor
of the city when I had the honour to be
invited along with the staff of the
Russian consulate to a similar function
at the Palace of the dal Tai I recollect
something about an ancient Greek deity
who swallowed his own offspring I have
read and Persian legend about the giant
zou Hawk who devour two men's brains
everyday at a meal I have heard rumors
of certain African savages who invite
missionaries to dinner and give their
guests the place of honor inside the pot
I have been setting gape by stories of
monstrous big eaters who had a single
meal could dispose of broken Ale bottles
open pen
and old boots but what are all these
things as compared with a Chinese dinner
of state with its sixty four courses
embracing the most extraordinary
products of the animal and vegetable
world's it is possible to imagine for
one thing to mention no more you need to
be blessed with an extraordinarily fine
appetite or else be a to
appreciate smoked ham dripping with
molasses when a issues
invitations to dinner he sends out one
or two days beforehand a tiny card of
invitation contained in a huge envelope
if you accept the invitation you're
supposed to keep the card if you have
not time that is if you decline you were
expected to send it back if the banquet
is appointed for 12 o'clock you need not
go before 2 p.m. should you however
appear punctually you will find your
host taking his midday siesta and see
neither guests attendance nor signs of
dinner when things are sufficiently
advanced in your hosts house he scents
off another messenger who comes and
shows you was masters calling card this
is to be interpreted as a signal that
you may now begin to address yourself
though you need not bustle about it
we - of the consulate made a truly
gorgeous show as we rode in procession
to the great man's palace the place of
honor at the head of the procession was
filled by a Sartre from west Turkestan
the Aqsa call our chief of all the
merchants and subjects of Russia who
dwelt in Kashgar
he wore a red velvet collet her coat
decorated with two or three Russian gold
medals close behind him wrote a Cossack
carrying the silk banner of the
consulate red and white with a little
blue cross stitched diagonally across
the corner consul-general Petrovsky and
i rode in a sort of landau escorted by
two officers and by Adamek not EF in the
long white coat with the cross and
rosary round his neck last came a dozen
Cossacks and white parade uniforms
curbing in their snorting horses with a
tight rein thus arrayed and Holliday
magnificence
we rode under a broiling hot Sun at a
gentle pace through the narrow dusty
lanes of kashgar across the marketplace
of riga stan with its hundreds of tiny
stalls shaded by thatched roofs each
supported by a slide
panting poll past mosques madrasas and
caravansaries across the flea bazaar
where old clothes are on sale coming
occasionally into collision with a
caravan of camels or a string of donkeys
laden with small casts of water and
entered at length the Chinese quarter of
the city full of quaint shops with up
curling roofs painted dragons and red
advertisement signs finally we drove in
at the great gates of the doubt eyes
Yaman and were there received by His
Excellency in person surrounded by a
band of beared listen wrinkled military
attendants dressed in their gayest
attire we had not got further than the
preliminary appetizer when the presence
of Adamek not yet started his Excellency
off on the subject of the missionary
activity of the Europeans in China he
spoke in terms of great admiration of
the Christian missionaries praising
their self-abnegation and disinterested
zeal for the well-being of their fellow
men
but speaking with marked emphasis he
went on to add that he felt bound to
look upon them as the authors and
instigators of discord setting members
of the same family at variance
undermining the time-honored ordinance
of domestic subordination dividing the
population into two hostile camps I
ventured to remind him of the murder of
two Swedish missionaries and song pall
of which I had just heard but the doubt
I professed total ignorance of the
affair our host then conducted us in his
Chinese guests to a little pavilion in
the garden where dinner was to be served
Chinese etiquette prescribes that the
host shall touch his forehead with the
cup each guest drinks out of and
thereupon presented to him similarly
with the chopsticks each guest eats with
the doubt I also shook each chair to
prove that it was in a sound condition
and passed his hand over the seat as if
to brush away the dust this performance
over we took our seats round the big red
lacquered table next came in a string of
servants each bearing a little round
porcelain dish with some preparation of
food upon it they put down the dishes
along the center of the table there were
dozens of them and the first supply was
followed by others time after time in
front of each guest stood still
all our dishes containing spices sauces
and soy if the guests neglected to help
themselves the host occasionally sent
them portions of the delicacies which
lined his own dishes such as the skin
fins and cartilage of different
varieties of fish found in the season
rivers of the Chinese Empire fungi
salted mutton fat cut into long strips
salamanders ham with a great variety of
widely different adjuncts besides a
multitude of strange preparations the
real constituents and names of which
remained mysteries to me as for tasting
them I really had no confidence in their
suspicious appearance still less than
the rancid odors they gave off the
culminating triumph of the feast was
smoked ham and molasses washed down with
tea and Chinese brandy strong and
boiling hot the greater part of the
numerous dishes served at the banquet
have been brought from China proper and
consequently owing to the vast distance
at a very considerable cost evidently
his Excellency who at ordinary times
lived very plainly himself was desirous
to show us every mark of respect but I'm
sorry to say we scarcely did justice to
the skill of the Chinese cuisine
although abri
sovereign would no doubt have gone into
raptures over it the only person who
worthily upheld the honor of Europe was
Adamek not EF but he did wonders
exciting the amazement of the rest of us
and even the admiration of the Chinese
themselves with punctilious
conscientiousness he partook of every
one of the forty-six courses and with
the Rosary still round his neck and the
cross on his breast drank 17 cups of
brandy stuff which to my throat was as
hot and burning a sulfuric acid poured
upon two iron filings and at the end of
the three hours that the banquet lasted
he rose every whit as sober as when he
took his seat at the beginning the
conclusion I came to about Chinese state
banquets was that you require a certain
amount of time to become accustomed to
the many unfamiliar dishes which are put
before you all the same several of them
were excellent some even quite delicious
undoubtedly the most delicious of all
was the soup made from the edible nests
of the swallow homework
correctly swiftlet a dish which is
seldom served in this far-off region
because of its extremely high price and
one of the walls that was painted two or
three black flourishes I inquired what
they signified and was told they meant
drink and tell racy stories there was no
need for any such admonition for the
spirit which reigned over the company
was so hilarious and we transgressed so
wantnt Lee against the strict rules of
Chinese etiquette that the doubt I and
his compatriots must surely have blushed
for us a score of times had not their
skins been from infancy as yellow as
sun-dried Haddix
we were entertained all through the
dinner by melodies of a sartre Orchestra
consisting of drums flutes and singers
whilst the monotonous music was
occasionally enlivened by a couple of
dancing boys as though we were not dizzy
enough without their gyrations as soon
as the last of the sixty-four courses
had disappeared the guests following the
rigorous law of custom instantly rose to
take their leave that moment was one
which I had long been anxiously waiting
for for I was dying for a cigar and a
glass of sherry with iced water to
banish the recollection of one of the
most extraordinary banquets it has ever
been my lot to be present at as we drove
home the streets the markets the bazaars
were silent and empty the only persons
we saw there were a few solitary
Wanderers a dervish or a leprous beggar
the Sun set behind the airy contours of
the Terek divan pass the twilight lasted
only just long enough to make the bare
announcement that a new night was
approaching then the Orient lay down and
dreamed again on its own grave I shall
not easily forget the many happy hours I
spent in console Petrovsky society it is
always a pleasure to me to go over them
again and my thoughts for as I have
already said he was really an
extraordinary man both in the matter of
experience and general culture I owe him
a very deep debt of gratitude not only
for his unstinted hospitality but also
for the extremely valuable advice he
gave me drawn from the storehouse of his
wide experience he has lived 12 years in
Kashgar and no man
Zess is a more intimate knowledge of
that region than he does to many it may
seem like transportation for a
well-educated man to have to spend so
many of the best years of his life in a
place like kashgar but it was nothing of
the sort to mr. Petrovsky he had learned
to like the place and he had an
inexhaustible fund of interest in its
historical and archaeological treasures
which he had unearthed there was one
thing about mr. Petrovsky which had for
me and a special attraction he was
always cheerful always an excellent good
humour for when you come to think of it
what is there that can give greater or
truer pleasure than to associate with
people who see life in the world in
bright colors and were perfectly
contented with the lot destiny has
shaped for them at the same time he was
both philosopher and critic with biting
wit and scathing irony he would lash the
minor follies of the world more
especially everything that's savored of
toady is Amon servility throughout all
my travels I have met no man who made a
deeper or more real impression upon me
than mr. Petrovsky nor was there any I
would so gladly meet again and yet again
in a word I had a splendid time with it
in Kashgar when I was quartered in a
cozy little room at a pavilion in the
consulate garden and after breakfast
used to stroll backwards and forwards
under the shady mulberry and plain trees
along a terrace which commanded a wide
view of the desolate regions through
which I was shortly to journey on my way
to the Far East I had constant company
in a colony of swallows which had built
their nests under the projecting eaves
and which were quite at home flying
freely in and out of the open doors and
windows for the summer air being warm
the doors and windows stood wide open
all day and all night long an Easter
morning I was awakened by the clear and
melodious echoes of a church bell which
the day before had arrived from
marianski and was hung in the Chapel of
the Russian consulate I spent my time
there working all day and wrote two or
three geographical papers all together
it was in every way a delightful
existence and just suited me down to the
ground I heard the wind whispering in
the tops of the plain trees what it
really says
I knew not but I love to dream that it
was bringing me greetings from home
little did I know then that I had still
three whole years of her travel before
me in the heart of Asia my life was
however anything but solitary apart from
the staff of the consulate the place
swarmed with Orientals sart's and Kyrgyz
who would come in and out on business or
pleasure then there was a crowd of
Mohammedans servants and a Chinese
interpreter to say nothing of hens and
chickens to the number of 300 turkeys
geese and ducks a monkey for parrots and
more than a dozen dogs I was on good
terms with the whole menagerie with the
sole exception of the monkey his favor I
could not succeed in winning even when I
resorted to such tempting delicacies as
apples and pears during my seven weeks
stay in Kashgar
I often discussed my plans of travel
with mr. Petrovsky especially how my
journeys ought to be arranged so that I
might visit each region and the season
most favorable for reaping a successful
harvest of observations the result of
our conversations was a total alteration
of the original idea with which I left
Europe instead of exploring all the
regions I had set my mind upon and one
continuous and unbroken journey as I had
at first intended I decided to carry out
my purpose in a series of longer or
shorter expeditions all starting from
kashgar as a center by that means I
should be able to carry my observations
to a place of safety as I made them to
develop my photographic plates pack and
send off home my collections as well as
have an excellent base at which to make
preparations for each fresh expedition I
intended my first journey to be to Locke
nor that being the object upon which my
heart was most set but in the beginning
of June the weather underwent a sudden
change summer the Asiatic summer was
upon us almost before we were aware of
it the sky glowed like a gigantic
furnace the temperature rose to a
hundred degrees Fahrenheit in the shade
the queen of the night was powerless to
infuse coolness into the superheated
atmosphere of East Turkestan and every
afternoon the desert wind blew in across
the ancient capital of yaku beg
drei burning impregnated with fine dust
filling the streets with a stifling
impenetrable haze and as the summer
advanced the heat would increase as well
as grow more intense the nearer we
travel towards the middle of the
continent I thought of the superheated
atmosphere heavily charged with dust
vibrating above the dunes of drifts and
I thought if the whirl winds which every
afternoon dry up and down the banks of
the Tarim I thought of the thousand
miles of long difficult marches across
the unending waterless deserts and I
shuddered it was only the other day as
it were that I had been living in nearly
40 degrees Fahrenheit a frost high upon
the premier's I should be all the more
sensitive to the burning heat of the
desert and at the 11th hour therefore I
resolved to spend the summer in the
higher regions and continue my
observations in the eastern pamir 's and
wait for the winter or the spring before
starting for lap nor on October 19th I
once more took possession of my room at
the consulate and kashgar delighted to
see the pile of newspapers and letters
which had accumulated during the course
of the summer I now settled down at the
house of my old friend Consul General
Petrovsky and was able to enjoy a period
of much-needed rest
who spent the long autumn evenings as
before by the fireside discussing many
an important Asiatic problem I will not
dwell upon my reminiscences of kashgar
except a couple of incidents which I
must mention my first care was to
arrange and label my geological
specimens from the Moose tagata and to
develop the photographs I had taken
after that I wrote a few scientific
papers on the work of the summer in the
beginning of November a breath of air
from Europe penetrated to our lonely
colony in the Far East
mr. Quebec Oh a privy councillor who was
making a tour of inspection through
Russian Turkestan arrived in Kashgar he
was a pleasant refined and well-read man
and during the week he stayed with us
the day's flew past more quickly than
usual I shall never forget the evening
of November 6 the anniversary of the day
in which the great gustavus adolphus
died we were all sitting around the
large drawing room table tea glass in
hand talking politics and discussing the
future of East Turkestan to the
crackling of the fire and the singing of
the sama fire when a breathless Cossack
courier entered the room without
knocking and going up to mr. Cobb Eiko
handed him a telegram from gujja the
last station of the Russian Telegraph
system
it contained news of the death of the
Emperor Alexander the third all present
rose to their feet and the Orthodox
Russians made the sign of the Cross deep
sorrow was depicted on every countenance
and for a long time there was a dead
silence in the room it had only taken
the short space of five days for the sad
news to penetrate into the very heart of
Asia the day after the arrival of the
telegram the doll tie and attend alloy
came to offer their condolences to
consul Petrovsky with their many colored
ceremonial costumes their gongs and
drums their parasols and standards and
with all their pomp and state they
presented a strange contrast to the
silent sorrow of the Russians the rest
of the vile and changes of climate that
I had been exposed to was an attack of
fever which came on in the middle of
November kept me a prisoner in bed for a
month
another misfortune overtook me in the
Russian bath to which I went accompanied
by two Cossacks and Islam by the bath
was heated and everything arranged but
after I had been in a considerable time
the Cossacks imagined that I ought to
have had enough of it and came to see
what it was doing on their entrance they
found that I had fainted some pipe in
the heating apparatus and sprung a leak
and the fumes nearly did for me the man
took me to my room at once and I
gradually came round but for two days
afterwards I had a splitting headache
then came Christmas Christmas what a
host of memories of regrets of hopes lie
in that one word yes it was Christmas in
Kashgar the snow fell softly but
evaporated immediately in the arid
atmosphere so that it did not even make
the ground white there was a sound of
bells in the streets and marketplace but
they were Caravan Bell
ring all the year round the stars shone
brightly in the sky but not with the
same magic brilliance as those of our
northern winter lights alike twinkled
here and there in the windows of the
houses but they were not Christmas
candles swinging on the fire branches
only lamps fed with conjured oil as
simple as in the time of Christ himself
could there be a more suitable person to
pay a visit to on this holy tide than
the Swedish missionary mr. heck Berg who
had come to kashgar with his family
during the summer mr. McCartney the
English agent and father Hendrix went
with me and we took a few small presents
from Mr Hague burrs little girl the
time-worn lessons for the day were read
and the Christmas Psalm was song - an
accompaniment on the harmonium then in
the darkness of Christmas Eve
father Hendrix and I strolled round of
mr. McCartney's house where mulled wine
and Christmas chair awaited us but
shortly after midnight
father Hendrix went away nor could we
persuade him to stay longer he was going
home to his lonely cabin in the Hindu
Caravan Surrey and on the stroke of
12:00 would read the Christmas Mass
alone alone always alone on January 5th
1895 mr. st. George little Dale with his
undaunted wife and a relative mr.
Fletcher arrived at kashgar and I spent
many a pleasant hour in their company
mr. little Dale was unusually genial
manly an unassuming in character and I
esteemed it a great privilege to us to
make the acquaintance support of the
most intrepid and able of living Asiatic
travellers he himself regarded his own
travels with critical eye was always
modest and had no pretensions
he said they traveled simply for the
pleasure for the sport and because the
active changing life was more to his
taste than the deities of London but
with the journey he began in the year
1895 he has written his name indelibly
in the annals of Asiatic exploration by
the sight of those of his distinguished
countrymen young husband and Bower in
the middle of January our English
friends left kashgar and for large carts
draped with carpets and an imposing
sight they made as they drove out of mr.
McCartney's yard they equipped their
large Caravan in church and
crossed tibet from north to south then
came the russian Christmas 12 days after
ours and the consulate became busy and
animated again Cossack weights woke me
up with plaintive songs on Christmas
morning and in the consul's house they
were great festivities it was a great
pleasure to me on my return to Kashgar
to meet a fellow countryman and the
person of the missionary mr. heck Berg
who had come here with his wife and
little girl a swedish lady missionary in
a converted persian one mirza josef in
the first place coming there at all with
two ladies had been an imprudence for
the Muhammadans could not be brought to
believe other than that mr. Hagberg had
two wives but when later on mirza joseph
married the swedish lady missionary the
prospects of the mission in that town
were destroyed for many a year to come
for in the eyes of the people of kashgar
mirza Joseph was still a and
such according to the Koran are
forbidden to choose their wives from
among and unbelieving people I gladly
pass over the construction put upon this
marriage and the unpleasantness had
caused but too many in Kashgar
had afforded a painful illustration of
the way in which missionary work is
often mismanaged and how lightly
missionaries take the grave
responsibilities which they have
voluntarily incurred when mr. Hecht Berg
found that it would be dangerous to
begin an act of propaganda at once he
wisely restricted his energies to the
manufacture of various common household
articles such as the people of kashgar
would find useful and such as they made
themselves in a very primitive fashion
for instance he constructed a capital
machine for the treatment of raw silk to
say nothing of spinning wheels bellows
etc all extremely well made and a source
of admiration and astonishment to the
natives it was always a pleasure to meet
him and his wife for like all the other
missionaries with who may have come in
contact they were kind and hospitable
people and looked at the future from the
bright side one cannot but respect
people who labor for their faith and the
light of honest conviction despite the
errors of judgment they may fall into
okay that last bit was written by Sven
Hadean recalling Christmas 1894 in
Kashgar Hadean had just returned from
attempting to scale moose dug at UH one
of the highest peaks located on the
northern edge of the Tibetan Plateau
this mountain range is immense and
Hadean was trying to conquer one of its
highest peaks
it would take until 1956 before someone
got to the top of that mountain so that
was today's morsel you know this time
period is so fascinating all this time
while Sven Hadean is out exploring all
these uncharted parts of Central Asia
playing in the background was this thing
known as the great game this was a
high-stakes game played by the British
and the Russians spent Hadean
time in and around shinjang 1894 the
great game was mostly over but just
barely the reverberations were still
felt this is Romanov dynasty Russia the
Bolshevik Revolution was still a good
two decades away so the British had a
lot of chips invested in their Indian
enterprise and the farther away they
could keep the Russians the better so
fortunately there was this big fat
buffer between Russia and India namely
Central Asia but due to a whole bunch of
historic events that I won't burden you
with the Russians were doing all they
could do creep southward and control
territory and whatever they couldn't
control they at least tried to influence
and the British were of course doing
everything they could to keep the
Russians in Russia with the signing of
the kind of a treaty in 1895 that
created that I don't know if you're
familiar with that Panhandle like
appendage that juts out of Northeast
Afghanistan with that created the
boundaries of where Russian influence
began and ended was sort of defined
still however when Van Hadean mixed with
Petrovsky and McCartney the feeling of
the great game was still there and both
those two men were giants of the great
game consul general Nicholas Petrovsky
and the British consul George McCartney
Petrovsky and McCartney couldn't
and each other but they were both
admirers of Hadean George McCartney was
the eldest son of another legend sir
Holliday McCartney he had quite a career
in China he was a relative of the first
Earl mccartney of the famous McCartney
mission 1792 1793 he fought with Charles
Chinese Gordon during the Taiping
rebellion and ended up marrying a niece
of Lee Hong Jung and served as a civil
servant in the Ching dynasty sort of
like what Marco Polo did during the gun
or perhaps didn't he had an incredible
career in China and in Britain working
with the Chinese officials stationed
there so his son George George McCartney
who spent Hadean was so enamored with
served in Kashgar for 28 years george
mccartney by the way originally came to
kashgar as the interpreter for the
immortal Sir Francis Edward Younghusband
another great man of the 19th century
one of the major players during the heat
of the great game another one mentioned
in spenta Dean's book such an
interesting cast of characters that all
found themselves together in one place
at the same time
Petrovsky McCartney father Hendrix Adam
Ignatieff the doubt I and I'm sure there
were many other bit players in this
whole slice of Central Asian and Chinese
history you heard the term Sartre more
than once a Sartre was a general term to
describe any Muslim from the regions of
Tajikistan Uzbekistan and Afghanistan
it's unclear who actually were these
certs but that was a term you heard
regularly up in that area anyway we'll
pick up next time with some readings
from volume 2 of spenta Dean's book
through Asia until then this is Laszlo
Montgomery signing off as usual from the
city of Los Angeles down in the southern
parts of California the Golden State not
the Sunshine State that's Florida feel
free to visit the China history podcast
or the Chinese sayings podcast over at
tea cup media whenever you feel so
inclined you won't be disappointed
take care everyone and see you next time
for another antiquarian classic here at
the China vintage hour